>> Steve Kinney: Talking
a little about cache, right?
Cuz like, we don't have an offline app
yet, we are simply taking your request and
giving back another request.
That does not get us the progressive
web app stamp of approval, right?
It doesn't work offline, we're just
sending pictures of oasis like giant
trolls every time they ask for
a picture of The Beatles.
Very cool, but not particularly useful for
building offline applications.
The Cache API, again, follows this
same extensible web manifesto logic.
We know that there is a cache.
There's an HTTP cache, right?
We saw that when we started looking
at service workers earlier.
You can set max age of a year and
maybe the browser keeps it for
a year, maybe it doesn't, right?
You can say,
I would like these things to happen, but
you don't have fine-grain control.
You don't have programmatic access to make
decisions with the normal HTTP cache.
The cache API gives us, again, in the same
way service worker gives us fine-grain
control and programmatic JavaScript
access to intercepting network requests.
The cache API gives us
fine-grain control and
JavaScript access in the full JavaScript
programming language for managing cache.
All right, so what does this look like?
We have caches, which is globally
available, and you can open the caches and
again, everything in a worker is
effectively asynchronous, right?
So that time we spent
talking about promises
is paying off in dividends right now
because most of these modern APIs,
with one exception that we'll talk
about later, use a promise-based API.
So we say caches open,
we say what cache would you like to open,
this is an arbitrary string, right?
In this case I've called it assets-v1,
you can call it sandwich.
It doesn't matter,
it is simply a unique identifier for
the set of caches that
you would like to open.
Or they're giving cache that
When that happens, you return
a promise which is the cache, right?
This would be the sandwich cache or
the assets-v1 cache in this case.
You can tell your cache a bunch of
things that you would like it to hold on
to, all right?
Again, this is not like hoping that
the HTTP header was all right and
the browser does the right thing.
You are in control.
So when a service worker installs,
we'll use this event waitUntil that we'll
talk about in a second, and we'll open the
caches, we'll take the given caches again,
this is assets-v1, and
we'll add three files to the cache.
Index.html, style.css,
client.js in this case.
These are just arbitrary files for a very
simple application and they will now,
we know that they have
been added to the cache.
If any of them have not been added to
the cache, this promise will fail, right?
So it's not just like hope they were
added, hope everything worked out.
It's like no, no, no, this promise will
reject if something didn't work out.
We will know if something didn't work out.
We can write a fallback if
something didn't work out.
And we put there three strings, but
it's a lot like Fetch insofar that these
strings are effectively request objects,
right?
And we can add all, we'll take a look at
some of the other methods in a second.
One strategy that you'll see sometimes is
this cache.add that's separate, right?
The promise will only resolve or
reject if everything in that return
resolves, or any of them reject,
all of them reject.
If there's non-critical things, you can
also do it outside of the return promise.
An example,
like why would you ever wanna use this.
Let's say, you're making a game and
you might say like listen.
We're not starting, like let's assume
that this thing did not install if we did
not cache levels like 1 through 20.
We can also try to cache like 23 through
40 as well but we don't necessarily,
they're not critical.
If you can cache them, great.
If the service worker that's
lifetime times out, fine.
If you can get them, cool.
But anything in that return value,
if it doesn't work out, the service
worker will not have installed.
So yeah, this is like non-critical css,
non-critical like things
that you could lazy load.
If you get it now great,
otherwise use it later.
So that waitUntil.
>> Steve Kinney: If you've ever written
a asynchronous JavaScript test, you know
that, in Mocha, you might have to say
done and then pass it in as an argument.
And with that way the test doesn't
like complete because the asynchronous
stuff hasn't come back yet,
event.waitUntil takes a promise and
it will keep this service, this install
process alive until that promise resolves.
Again, if the promise resolves in a happy
place, the service workers installed.
If the promise rejects, we've assumed
that this service worker is bunk and
we don't actually install it at all.
So it gives you, one, the ability
to make sure like I'm doing some of
the asynchronous things, give me time.
And two, if things go wrong,
don't actually install me.
I don't know what I'm doing.
Let's wait until I configure this out.
So we use it a lot for anything that
we want to, one, insure success or
know about failure and b,
keep this process alive until it is done.
So, I hinted this before, the Cache API
is effectively a key values storage.
The keys are requests,
the values are responses.
>> Steve Kinney: Which means that if
you say hey, I have this request,
it's like yes, I already know
about these kinds of requests.
I have one of them, here is this
response that I would like to give.
Here's a response that I know about.
And this plays really nicely
with the Fetch API, right?
Which means the Fetch API has a request,
right?
It got a request as part of the Fetch,
and so you can talk to the cache API.
Listen, I got this request through Fetch,
do you know anything about this?
Do you have anything stored for this, and
the Cache can go, those kind of requests,
yeah, I know about those, right?
Or it can be, I've never seen that
before in my life, so, sorry.
Generally speaking,
the only kinda things that we can
really cache are GET requests, right.
You can't cache what happens
if a user sends data.
So generally speaking,
these are GET requests.
But thinking about it,
we'll see a lot of stuff in strings.
If you see a string being
handed to the Cache,
it's doing the same thing Fetch does.
The kind of primitive under
the hood is this request object,
and that's kind of like how
it all strings together.
So we have a bunch of methods for
manipulating the cache.
Cool.
So we'll open this band-assets,
keep on our Beatles Oasis theme.
And effectively the most,
the simplest one for
putting something in the cache is this
very well-named method called put.
And put takes two arguments.
It will take a request and a response.
And if it sees that request again it
will give you that response, right?
Now, this is a perfect world where
I happen to have a response object
just sitting around in my JavaScript
code that I could pass in.
Likely, you don't have that yet, right?
How do we normally grab
a hands on responses?
Fetch, right?
So normally it's like I
will Fetch something and
I will get the response
back from the server.
Basically, you get a Fetch and
then pass it in.
There's a little helper called add.
Add will just take a request.
And it is effectively
the same as doing this.
It's effectively the same of taking
the request, fetching the request,
storing the response, and then putting
the request and the response then.
So add takes one argument, but effectively
what it does, it goes ahead and
then fetches it and
stores that response in there, right?
So our cache is request and
the associated responses at the time
that it was put into the cache.
>> Speaker 2: Cache
match versus cache put?
>> Steve Kinney: Cache match
will say are you in the cache?
That's kind of like getting
something out of the cache.
Cache add will take a request,
fetch the response,
and put the request response pair in.
Cache, yeah,
that should be put, thank you.
[LAUGH] Minor tab, yeah,
that last line should be a put in there,
instead of a match.
A match, spoiler alert, will check to
see if something is in the cache, and
then return you that response.
So working with the cache,
there are two times that we might
set up the cache in this case.
We've talked about adding
stuff into the cache but
we haven't really talked
about getting stuff out yet.
The getting stuff out mostly
happens at fetches, right?
Like, hey they asked for something.
That is most likely when you
pull something out of the cache.
But setting up the cache,
we have two major times that
we might set up the cache.
One, uninstall.
So its new service worker is emerging and
it basically is like okay,
I know that I need to cache
the index.html,
the style.css, the script.js.
I need to collect all these things
as part of me being a service worker
is I have all these things, so
we set up all the things that
this service worker needs to have in
cache in order to be able to do its job.
What do you not want to do in
the install process is touch
anything that the existing
service worker is using, right?
This should be setting up what you need,
but not touching what anyone else needs.
Activate, which means I am now
the service worker, right?
Which means I no longer have
to care about anyone else,
I am the service worker, which is
a great time to remove any cache that
the current service worker doesn't
need that maybe old ones did.
And this is where those cache
names become really important.
Because this service
worker could be assets-v1.
It sets everything up, it takes the stage,
a new service worker emerges.
Maybe its cache name is asset-v2.
It can set up the asset-v2 cache.
And then what should it do
when it takes the stage?
Remove then the assets-v1.
What you don't wanna do is on install,
let's get rid of the one that
the current service worker is using, no.
The strings,
those arbitrary strings, give us the
ability to name space the cache, right.
So we can have this service worker's cache
versus another service worker's cache.
So let's look at this with some code.
Here we have a constant called
currentCache, again assets-v1,
this is a string.
A more advanced thing you could do is
if you had some build tools you could
theoretically go if the service worker has
changed, let's update this to the hash
that we saw in the file names to the build
process or something along those lines.
And you'd do it dynamically.
Or in a very simple application,
you can manually increment this.
We'll say, okay, we're gonna install,
wait, open the current cache,
add these three files in there.
And this will set up
the initial service worker.
Let's say we have a second one come and
it's now taking the stage.
Its current cache is assets-v2.
Again, like this is you might have
manually updated because you know it's
doing different stuff with the caches.
Basically, the easiest way to do it is
caches.keys will give you
all of those strings.
So in this case, assets-v1, assets-v2.
It'll give you all of
the name spaces in there.
And you can simply go
through all of them and
say, I am now the service worker,
I use assets-v2.
Anything that's in there, we can filter
through all of the other cache keys.
If you're not the current one, I'm gonna
clean you up and get rid of you, right?
So we go through all of them,
we say if the name of that cache is not
the name of the current cache, cool.
Make an array of all of those, go through
those and delete each one of those, so
now you've cleaned up after yourself.
Otherwise, you start taking up more and
more memory.
How much memory you're
allotted in cache and
index DB and all those things
varies from browser to browser.
And even within browsers, varies
a little bit depending on disk space.
So this number I can always change,
it's not actually in the spec.
At this moment,
Chrome gives you per origin,
6% of available storage space.
You don't know what's 6% is,
[LAUGH] right, if it is like
a older budget-priced phone,
probably not a lot.
If it is a like, top of the line
phone you might have a whole lot,
you don't really know, right?
So you do need to be
judicious as you store stuff.
Because if you start blowing your budget,
the browser will take care of this for
you and
it will basically wipe you out completely.
So you want to be 6%,
Jen always figures a lot.
I think Firefox is 10%.
Some other browsers might be a certain
number of megabytes, it varies and
it could change cuz it's not in the spec.
So generally speaking, as much as you need
and as little as you can get away with.
>> Speaker 3: So if you go over
the browser sort of pick and
choose what it drops
as you add new things?
>> Steve Kinney: It will wipe you out.
>> Speaker 3: It will go away, yep,
so you want to in a lot of cases
that is still like a lot of stuff
that you would be caching, right?
But yeah something to keep in mind.
The really cool thing about the Cache API
is we've looked in the context of
a service worker,
because that's our focus today.
But you can also access the Cache API
from the browser as well,
from the client-side code.
And it's really interesting, so
you could implement stuff like save for
offline where you have a link.
Yeah, totally go fetch that, and
let's store it in the cache, right.
So you can programmatically access
it from the main thread as well,
which is really kinda cool.